Improve How To section (#833)
meilisearch/documentation: create/how_to/updating.md

<RouteHighlighter method="POST" route="/dumps"/>

MeiliSearch will store the dump in your dump directory, by default `dumps/`. You can [modify this directory](/reference/features/configuration.md#dumps-destination) through the command line or an environment variable.

The server should return a response that looks like this:

```json
{
  "uid": "20210212-151153878",
  "status": "in_progress"
}
```

Since dump creation is an [asynchronous process](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_updates.md), you can use the returned `uid` to [track its status](/reference/api/dump.md#get-dump-status).

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/dumps/:dump_uid/status"/>

This process can take some time. Once the status is `"done"`, move on to the next step.

### Step 3: Import the dump

Now that you’ve got your dump, you just need to [install the latest version of MeiliSearch](/learn/getting_started/installation.md#download-and-launch) and import the dump at launch, like so:

```bash
# Install MeiliSearch in the local directory
curl -L https://install.meilisearch.com | sh

# Launch MeiliSearch and import the specified dump file
./meilisearch --import-dump /dumps/name_of_your_dump.dump

> ```

Reviewer: Tab with all installation options?  Or link to it maybe.

curl -X GET “http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings” -o mysettings.json
```

It is important to first export your settings before exporting documents, since retrieving the documents in their entirety may require modifying the settings.

### Step 2: Set all fields as displayed attributes

In order to retrieve all the fields present in your documents, all fields must be set as `displayedAttributes`.

By default, all fields are included in `displayedAttributes`. Still, it's a good idea to verify your settings before continuing. Do so using the [get displayed attributes](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#get-displayed-attributes) endpoint:

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes"/>

If the returned value is `["*"]`, you can move on to the next step.

If not, use the [reset displayed-attributes](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes) endpoint.

<RouteHighlighter method="DELETE" route="/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes"/>

Now that all fields are **displayed**, you can proceed to save your documents without risking any information loss.

> ### Step 3: Save your documents

Reviewer 2: We need to add a warning or a note in this section to remind users to raise the limit. If they don't raise it they will only have 20 documents in their file!

Author: Great catch, thanks!

# Update to the Latest MeiliSearch Version

Currently, MeiliSearch versions [are not compatible with each other](/learn/getting_started/installation.md#updating-meilisearch). The following guide will walk you through all the steps to migrate your database from an older version of MeiliSearch to the most recent one.

If you already have a MeiliSearch database with some data you don’t want to lose, you are in the right place!

## Verify your database version

Before we begin, you need to verify your database's **expected MeiliSearch version**, i.e. the version that indexed the data. You can do so by launching a MeiliSearch instance:

```bash
./meilisearch
```

If MeiliSearch launches successfully, use the [get version endpoint](/reference/api/version.md) and [proceed to the next step](#proceed-according-to-your-database-version).

```bash
curl -X GET 'http://127.0.0.1:7700/version'
```

> If you get the error `Cannot open database, expected MeiliSearch engine version: X.X.X, current engine version Y.Y.Y`, **your database is not compatible with the currently installed MeiliSearch version**. You need to download the expected version and use that instead.

Author: I see, I thought it was clear in this location since it's the same language as in the error message. That's a good note, thanks. Sometimes it can be hard to strike a balance between speed/efficiency and clarity...

> If you get the error `Cannot open database, expected MeiliSearch engine version: X.X.X, current engine version Y.Y.Y`, **your database is not compatible with the currently installed MeiliSearch version**. You need to download the expected version and use that instead.

Reviewer 3: Clarity trumps everything IMNSHO

- **If your version is v0.14.0 or below**, [go here](#updating-from-v0-14-0-or-below).

## Updating from v0.15.0 or above

Because MeiliSearch v0.15.0 and above include the [dumps feature](/reference/features/dumps.md), updating is very simple.

You just need to:

1. **Create a dump** using the *expected* MeiliSearch version.
2. **Import it** using the *most recent* MeiliSearch version.

### Step 1: Set all fields as displayed attributes

When creating dumps, MeiliSearch calls the same method as the [GET documents endpoint](/reference/api/documents.md#get-documents). This means that a field must be present in the [displayed attributes list](/reference/features/field_properties.md#displayed-fields) in order to be included in the dump.

By default, all fields are added to `displayedAttributes`. Still, it's a good idea to verify this before creating a dump. You can do so by using the [get displayed attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#get-displayed-attributes):

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes'
```

> If the returned value is `["*"]`, you can move on to the [next step](#step-2-create-the-dump). If not, then you need to use the [reset displayed attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes).

Author: https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/features/field_properties.html#default-automatic

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes'
```

### Step 2: Create the dump

Before creating your dump, verify that your [dump directory](/reference/features/configuration.md#dumps-destination) is somewhere accessible to you. By default this is a folder called `dumps` at the root of your MeiliSearch directory, but can be modified at launch.

::: tip

> If you're unsure where your MeiliSearch directory is located, try this:

Author: What would be a Windows equivalent?

> If you're unsure where your MeiliSearch directory is located, try this:

Author: `where`?

> If you're unsure where your MeiliSearch directory is located, try this:

Reviewer 3: I have no idea, let me ask some folks.

> If you're unsure where your MeiliSearch directory is located, try this:

Reviewer 3: It's `where.exe`, I thought you were just guessing because of the interrogation point.

```bash
which meilisearch
```

:::

> To create a dump, simply use the [create dump endpoint](/reference/api/dump.md#create-a-dump).

Author: Good point, it's a bad habit.

```bash
curl -X POST 'http://127.0.0.1:7700/dumps'
```

The server should return a response that looks like this:

```json
{
  "uid": "20210212-151153878",
  "status": "in_progress"
}
```

Since dump creation is an [asynchronous process](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_updates.md), you can use the returned `uid` to [track its status](/reference/api/dump.md#get-dump-status).

```bash
curl -X GET 'http://127.0.0.1:7700/dumps/:dump_uid/status'
```

> This process can take some time. Once the status is `"done"`, move on to the next step.

Author: Don't think we can be more specific without knowing the size of their database.

### Step 3: Import the dump

Now that you’ve got your dump, you just need to [install the latest version of MeiliSearch](/learn/getting_started/installation.md#download-and-launch) and import the dump at launch, like so:

> 

Author: That doesn't seem like the best place for this information, since it's not necessary for the guide.

> 

Reviewer 3: Sounds good!

### Step 1: Save your settings

First, use the [get settings endpoint](/reference/api/settings.md#get-settings) to retrieve the [settings](/reference/features/settings.md) of any indexes you want to preserve, and save them to a file using the method you prefer.

```bash
# the -o option saves the output as a local file
curl -X GET \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings' -o mysettings.json
```

Repeat this process for all indexes you wish to migrate.

**It is important to save your settings before exporting documents**, since the next step may require you to modify the settings.

### Step 2: Set all fields as displayed attributes

To prevent data loss, all fields must be set as [displayed](/reference/features/field_properties.md#displayed-fields).

By default, all fields are added to the displayed attributes list. Still, it's a good idea to verify this before creating a dump. You can do so by using the [get displayed attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#get-displayed-attributes):

```bash
curl -X GET \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes'
```

> If the returned value is `["*"]`, you can move on to the [next step](#step-2-create-the-dump). If not, then you need to use the [reset displayed-attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes).

Author: I think this is clear, what part of it is confusing?

> If the returned value is `["*"]`, you can move on to the [next step](#step-2-create-the-dump). If not, then you need to use the [reset displayed-attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes).

Author: Would this be better:
```suggestion
If the response is `'displayedAttributes': '["*"]' , you can move on to the [next step](#step-2-create-the-dump). If not, then you need to use the [reset displayed-attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes).
```

> If the returned value is `["*"]`, you can move on to the [next step](#step-2-create-the-dump). If not, then you need to use the [reset displayed-attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes).

Reviewer 2: But the actual response is just `["*"]`...

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes'
```

Now that all fields are displayed, you can proceed to the next step.

### Step 3: Save your documents

> Use the [get documents endpoint](/reference/api/documents.md#get-documents) to retrieve your documents and save them using the method you prefer. Make sure to set the `limit` parameter so that, if you have `n` documents, `limit ≥ n`. Otherwise, you risk data loss.

Reviewer 3: can we let them know what is the limit, or tell them it's explained in the link we just added, or remove that part since it's explained in the API reference?

Reviewer 2: Don't remove this part, people will lose their documents if they don't raise the limit.

In this case, you need to **download the compatible version now** (i.e. `0.X.X` in the above error message) so that you can access and export your database.

:::: tabs

::: tab cURL
If you downloaded MeiliSearch using `curl`, find and download the compatible version [here](https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch/releases) before continuing.
:::

::: tab Homebrew

Replace `0.X.X` with the version you would like to install.

```bash
brew install meilisearch@0.X.X
```

:::

::: tab Source

Replace `0.X.X` with the version you would like to install.

```bash
# clone MeiliSearch and checkout the branch of the expected version
git clone https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch
cd MeiliSearch
git checkout v0.X.X

# update the rust toolchain to the latest version
rustup update

# compile the project
cargo build --release

# execute the server binary
./target/release/meilisearch
```

:::

::: tab APT

Replace `0.X.X` with the version you would like to install.

```bash
apt-get install meilisearch=0.X.X
```

:::

::: tab Docker

Replace `0.X.X` with the version you would like to install.

```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -p 7700:7700 \

>     -v $(pwd)/data.ms:/data.ms \

Reviewer 3: I missed it at first, but `$(pwd)/data.ms:/data.ms` needs to be within double-quotes so if `$(pwd)` contains a space, it won't return an error. I fixed it in the MeiliSearch repo, but we may have this elsewhere.

Author: Wow, nice catch!

```bash
# whenever you see :index_uid, replace it with your index's unique id
curl -X GET \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes'
```

If the response is `{'displayedAttributes': '["*"]'}`, you can move on to the [next step](#step-2-create-the-dump).

If it's something else, then you need to use the [reset displayed attributes endpoint](/reference/api/displayed_attributes.md#reset-displayed-attributes). Before doing this, make sure you save your list of displayed attributes somewhere so you can restore it afterwards.

```bash
curl -X DELETE \
  'http://127.0.0.1:7700/indexes/:index_uid/settings/displayed-attributes'
```

This command should return an updateId:

```json
{
  "updateId": 1
}
```

Now that all fields are displayed, proceed to the next step.

### Step 2: Create the dump

Before creating your dump, make sure that your [dump directory](/reference/features/configuration.md#dumps-destination) is somewhere accessible. By default, dumps are created in a folder called `dumps` at the root of your MeiliSearch directory.

If you're unsure where your MeiliSearch directory is located, try this:

:::: tabs

> ::: tab OSX / Linux

Reviewer 3: `OSX` isn't the name anymore. They changed for `macOS` so we should changed it here, and elsewhere in the documentation.

Author: Didn't realize this! I feel kind of old now.
